It starts with a client machine sending requests in the HTTP format. The server machine receives the 
request, understands it and takes appropriate action. The response again has to be formatted in a specific 
manner adhering to the HTTP protocol for the client to make sense of it.

ctrl+shift+i developer tap
open network search for doc file and u will Observe the following things
Observe the following details for this HTTP request in the "General" section
Request URL - URL of the resource fetched
Request Method - denotes the action to be done. "GET" is for fetching some resource
Status Code - denotes how the server responded to the request. "200 OK" means a successful request and as 
this is a “GET” request, server will have sent some data back i.e, website’s HTML content

Is this a special port number? Is there any relationship between the port number used and the Request URL? 
Any application can bind() to any available port,That's because the port number itself is just a 16-bit 
field in the packet headers and there is no practical way for the operating system to know what is going 
on at the application level.External to an application you can use NAT (Network Address Translation) in a 
router or firewall to redirect any port number to any other port number.


Why is there a lock icon in the address bar of your browser?
A padlock icon, or lock icon, displayed in a web browser indicates a secure mode where communications between 
browser and web server are encrypted. This type of connection is designed to prevent anyone from reading
or modifying the data you exchange with the website.

Uniform Resource Locator (URL)
A URL (Uniform Resource Locator) is used to uniquely identify a resource over the web. URL has the following syntax:
protocol://hostname:port/path-and-file-name
Protocol: The application-level protocol used by the client and server, e.g., HTTP, FTP, and telnet.
Hostname: The DNS domain name (e.g., www.nowhere123.com) or IP address (e.g., 192.128.1.2) of the server.
Port: The TCP port number that the server is listening for incoming requests from the clients.
Path-and-file-name: The name and location of the requested resource, under the server document base directory.

Request Line
request-method-name request-URI HTTP-version
request-method-name: HTTP protocol defines a set of request methods, e.g., GET, POST, HEAD, and OPTIONS. The client can use one of these methods to send a request to the server.
request-URI: specifies the resource requested.
HTTP-version: Two versions are currently in use: HTTP/1.0 and HTTP/1.1.
GET /test.html HTTP/1.1
HEAD /query.html HTTP/1.0
POST /index.html HTTP/1.1

Request Headers
The request headers are in the form of name:value pairs. Multiple values, separated by commas, can be specified.
request-header-name: request-header-value1, request-header-value2, ...
Examples of request headers are:
Host: www.xyz.com
Connection: Keep-Alive
Accept: image/gif, image/jpeg, */*
Accept-Language: us-en, fr, cn


Status Line
The first line is called the status line, followed by optional response header(s).
The status line has the following syntax:
HTTP-version status-code reason-phrase
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
HTTP/1.0 404 Not Found
HTTP/1.1 403 Forbidden

Response Headers
The response headers are in the form name:value pairs:
response-header-name: response-header-value1, response-header-value2, ...
Examples of response headers are:
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 35
Connection: Keep-Alive
Keep-Alive: timeout=15, max=100

HTTP Request Methods
HTTP protocol defines a set of request methods. A client can use one of these
request methods to send a request message to an HTTP server. The methods are:
GET: A client can use the GET request to get a web resource from the server.
HEAD: A client can use the HEAD request to get the header that a GET request would have obtained. 
      Since the header contains the last-modified date of the data, this can be used to check against
      the local cache copy.
POST: Used to post data up to the web server.
PUT: Ask the server to store the data.

Is it possible to tell the server Flipkart used based on any of the HTTP Response headers the server sent back?
Not unless you give me access to Flipkart server.
Yes, it is Tomcat.
Yes, it is Nginx.
Yes, it is Microsoft IIS.
Correct
Correct Answer: Yes, it is Nginx.